# uniCal 📆📦

Ever wanted to subscribe to an iCal calendar but only need specific events, such as a university schedule where you don't attend every course?  
**uniCal** is a Go application that downloads an iCal file from a given URL, filters out unwanted events using a blocklist, and creates a new, customized iCal file.

## Features

- Downloads iCal data from a specified URL.
- Filters events by titles listed in a `blocklist.yaml` file.
- Saves the filtered calendar to an `ical` directory.

## Configuration

1. Update `config/blocklist.yaml` with your iCal URL and the event titles to exclude. Example:

  ```yaml
  origin_url: "https://example.com/calendar.ics"
  blocklist:
    - "Event Title 0"
    - "Event Title 1"
  ```

  <details> <summary><strong>ℹ️ Getting courses of a semester</strong></summary>
  To figure out which courses take place in a given timespan, you can run the program locally:

  ```
  go run ./cmd 2025-09-29 2025-12-24
  ```

  This will print a list of unique courses scheduled within that period.
  </details>

2. Run the application
  ```go
  go run ./cmd/
  ```
  The filtered calendar will be saved as `ical/filtered_calendar.ics`.
  
3. Add the calendar to your preferred calendar application by using the GitHub raw URL. Replace <gh-username> with your GitHub username and <branch> with your branch name:
  ```
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/<gh-username>/uniCal/<branch>/ical/filtered_calendar.ics
  ```

  <details> <summary><strong>ℹ️ Using GitHub Actions</strong></summary>

  When using the .ics file generated by GitHub Actions, note that it is stored in the dedicated branch calendar-updates.

  Use the following URL (adjust <gh-username> to your account):
  ```
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/<gh-username>/uniCal/calendar-updates/ical/filtered_calendar.ics
  ```
  </details>

## Keeping Your Calendar Up-to-Date

The GitHub Action defined under `.github/workflows` fetches the source calendar, applies filtering, and updates the generated `.ics` file.
It can be scheduled via a cron job — adjust this to your preferred refresh rate.

## License

Licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
